SensorServer/README.md, before:

SensorServer
============

Node.js server for collecting sensor data

This server allows various sensor apps to send their data via REST to
store them in a DB. The server processes the raw sensor data into
history tables and offer a UI to view the data.

TODO
----

-   Compete REST API with some JSON object for Views and History
-   Auth?
-   Implement CronJob for cleaning up historys.

Database Tables
---------------

The databse holds the following tables
- Sensors
  - Id: Unique Id for the sensor
  - Name: Sensor name
  - Units: kWh, M3
  - High: The counter for high rate energy from 7:00 till 23:00
  - Low: The counter for low rate energy from 23:00 till 7:00
  - Volume: The volume of each pulse, in my case 1/375 for electricity
- SensorEvents
  - Id: Unique Id for the event
  - SenorId: Unique Id for the sensor
  - Time: Unix Epoch in milliseconds
  - Rate: 1 for low, 2 for high

## Rest API
The Rest API can insert, update and query the tables

The following endpoinst are available:
- /api/sensors
  - POST: Inserts a new Sensor record.
  ```{.json}
  {
    "id": sensorId,
    "name": sensorName,
    "units": sensorUnits,
    "high": sensorHigh,
    "low": sensorLow,
    "volume": sensorVolume
  }
  ```
  - GET: Returns all sensors from the Sensors tabel
  - PUT: Updates the sensor information in the table
  ```{.json}
  {
    "id": sensorId,
    "name": sensorName,
    "units": sensorUnits,
    "high": sensorHigh,
    "low": sensorLow,
    "volume": sensorVolume
  }
  ```


- /api/sensors/:id  
  Returns the sensor information from the Sensors tabel for the specified Id

- /api/sensorevents
  - POST: Inserts a new SensorEvent record.
  ```{.json}
  sensordata: {
    "id": sensorId,
    "time": currentTime,
    "rate": currentRate
  }
  ```
  - GET:Returns the last 10 sensorevents from the SensorEvents tabel


- /api/sensorevents/:id  
  Returns the last 10 sensorevents from the SensorEvents tabel for the specified Id

- /api/now/:id
  Returns the following JSON:  
  ``` {.json}
  {
    "Total" : Total Usage,
    "High" : High Usage,
    "Low" : Low Usage,
    "UsageTime" : Timestamp of the last known usage,
    "Usage" : Last known usage, diff between last 2 sensorevents
  }
  ```

Builtin Cron Jobs
-----------------

Not implemented yet.

Running in the background
-------------------------

Use the module https://www.npmjs.com/package/forever to run the server
in the background.

Commit message:

Moved logging to config.son so we can switch log level. Interval for config changes is 60 seconds Note, still need to make logger a global var or something.

SensorServer/README.md, after:

SensorServer
============

Node.js server for collecting sensor data

This server allows various sensor apps to send their data via REST to
store them in a DB. The server processes the raw sensor data into
history tables and offer a UI to view the data.

TODO
----

- Compete REST API with some JSON object for Views and History
- Auth?
- Implement CronJob for cleaning up historys.
- Logging need to be set at global level.

Database Tables
---------------

The databse holds the following tables
- Sensors
  - Id: Unique Id for the sensor
  - Name: Sensor name
  - Units: kWh, M3
  - High: The counter for high rate energy from 7:00 till 23:00
  - Low: The counter for low rate energy from 23:00 till 7:00
  - Volume: The volume of each pulse, in my case 1/375 for electricity
- SensorEvents
  - Id: Unique Id for the event
  - SenorId: Unique Id for the sensor
  - Time: Unix Epoch in milliseconds
  - Rate: 1 for low, 2 for high

## Rest API
The Rest API can insert, update and query the tables

The following endpoinst are available:
- /api/sensors
  - POST: Inserts a new Sensor record.
  ```{.json}
  {
    "id": sensorId,
    "name": sensorName,
    "units": sensorUnits,
    "high": sensorHigh,
    "low": sensorLow,
    "volume": sensorVolume
  }
  ```
  - GET: Returns all sensors from the Sensors tabel
  - PUT: Updates the sensor information in the table
  ```{.json}
  {
    "id": sensorId,
    "name": sensorName,
    "units": sensorUnits,
    "high": sensorHigh,
    "low": sensorLow,
    "volume": sensorVolume
  }
  ```


- /api/sensors/:id  
  Returns the sensor information from the Sensors tabel for the specified Id

- /api/sensorevents
  - POST: Inserts a new SensorEvent record.
  ```{.json}
  sensordata: {
    "id": sensorId,
    "time": currentTime,
    "rate": currentRate
  }
  ```
  - GET:Returns the last 10 sensorevents from the SensorEvents tabel


- /api/sensorevents/:id  
  Returns the last 10 sensorevents from the SensorEvents tabel for the specified Id

- /api/now/:id
  Returns the following JSON:  
  ``` {.json}
  {
    "Total" : Total Usage,
    "High" : High Usage,
    "Low" : Low Usage,
    "UsageTime" : Timestamp of the last known usage,
    "Usage" : Last known usage, diff between last 2 sensorevents
  }
  ```

Builtin Cron Jobs
-----------------

Not implemented yet.

Running in the background
-------------------------

Use the module https://www.npmjs.com/package/forever to run the server
in the background.
