EnergySensor/README.md, before:

EnergySensor
============

Node.js app for reading an energy sensor with a TCRT5000 Reflective
Optical Sensor module

TODO
----

-   Try to determine sensor noise on standard deviation,
-   Implement debug package
-   Maybe change log package

Hardware setup
--------------

Connect the sensor module VVC and Grnd to the 3.3v and Grnd pins on the
GPIO. Connect the D0 (Digital Out) to pin 17 on the GPIO port of a
Raspberry PI.

Config file
-----------

The sensor app relies on a config file.

``` {.json}
{
  "id": 1,
  "name": "Electriciteit",
  "units": "kWh",
  "high": 0,
  "low": 0,
  "volume": 0.00266666666667
}
```

Commandline parameters
----------------------

-   Log\
    Use to specify the loglevel, default is info:
-   0 **EMERGENCY** system is unusable
-   1 **ALERT** action must be taken immediately
-   2 **CRITICAL** the system is in critical condition
-   3 **ERROR** error condition
-   4 **WARNING** warning condition
-   5 **NOTICE** a normal but significant condition
-   6 **INFO** a purely informational message
-   7 **DEBUG** messages to debug an application
-   Url Use to specify the URL of the sensor server, default is\
    http://localhost:3141

DeBouncing the signal
---------------------

Connected to the Pi the sensor D0 signal seems to bounce quite bit and
doesn't always return return High and Low when watching for both
(raising and falling) events. I debounced this calculating the interval
between the current event and the previous event. If the interval \> 30
milliseconds we have a possible hit. Now we have collection of High and
Low events that we can filter with the actual event. I did this by
dividing the interval of the previous event with the interval of the
current event. If the result \< 1 we have a hit. Basically I ignored the
signal state and used the timestamp of singal to determine the event.

``` {.javascript}
function readSensor(err, state) {
  var currentEvent = Moment();

  var currentInterval = currentEvent.diff(previousEvent);
  var intervalFactor = previousInterval / currentInterval;
  var date = new Date();
  var currentRate = date.getHours() <= 7 ? 1 : 2; //Rate 1 is Low and 2 is High

  if (currentInterval > 30) {
    if (intervalFactor < 1 && firstEvent === false) {

      var currentWatt = (3600000 / (375 * currentInterval) * 1000);

      log.debug('State = ' + state + ' Another roundtrip, time: ' +
        currentEvent.format() + ' interval : ' + currentInterval +
        'ms factor : ' + intervalFactor + ' rate is: ' + currentRate +
        ' current usage:' + currentWatt);

      var eventData = {
        sensordata: {
          id: sensorId,
          time: currentEvent.valueOf(),
          rate: currentRate
        }
      };

      log.debug('Posting: ' + JSON.stringify(eventData));

    } else if (firstEvent === true) {
      firstEvent = false;
      log.debug('Skipping first event to avoid getting noise in the results');
    } else {
      log.debug('End of the black stripe, we can drop this event: ' +
        currentInterval + 'ms');
    }

    previousEvent = currentEvent;
        previousInterval = currentInterval;
  } else {

    log.debug('Singal bounce ignored, interval: ' + currentInterval +
      'ms');
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Moved logging to config.son so we can switch log level. Interval for config changes is 60 seconds Note, still need to make logger a global var or something.

EnergySensor/README.md, after:

EnergySensor
============

Node.js app for reading an energy sensor with a TCRT5000 Reflective
Optical Sensor module

TODO
----

-   Try to determine sensor noise on standard deviation,
-   Implement debug package
-   Maybe change log package
-   Logging need to be set at global level.

Hardware setup
--------------

Connect the sensor module VVC and Grnd to the 3.3v and Grnd pins on the
GPIO. Connect the D0 (Digital Out) to pin 17 on the GPIO port of a
Raspberry PI.

Config file
-----------

The sensor app relies on a config file.

``` {.json}
{
  "id": 1,
  "name": "Electriciteit",
  "units": "kWh",
  "high": 0,
  "low": 0,
  "volume": 0.00266666666667
}
```

Commandline parameters
----------------------

-   Log\
    Use to specify the loglevel, default is info:
-   0 **EMERGENCY** system is unusable
-   1 **ALERT** action must be taken immediately
-   2 **CRITICAL** the system is in critical condition
-   3 **ERROR** error condition
-   4 **WARNING** warning condition
-   5 **NOTICE** a normal but significant condition
-   6 **INFO** a purely informational message
-   7 **DEBUG** messages to debug an application
-   Url Use to specify the URL of the sensor server, default is\
    http://localhost:3141

DeBouncing the signal
---------------------

Connected to the Pi the sensor D0 signal seems to bounce quite bit and
doesn't always return return High and Low when watching for both
(raising and falling) events. I debounced this calculating the interval
between the current event and the previous event. If the interval \> 30
milliseconds we have a possible hit. Now we have collection of High and
Low events that we can filter with the actual event. I did this by
dividing the interval of the previous event with the interval of the
current event. If the result \< 1 we have a hit. Basically I ignored the
signal state and used the timestamp of singal to determine the event.

``` {.javascript}
function readSensor(err, state) {
  var currentEvent = Moment();

  var currentInterval = currentEvent.diff(previousEvent);
  var intervalFactor = previousInterval / currentInterval;
  var date = new Date();
  var currentRate = date.getHours() <= 7 ? 1 : 2; //Rate 1 is Low and 2 is High

  if (currentInterval > 30) {
    if (intervalFactor < 1 && firstEvent === false) {

      var currentWatt = (3600000 / (375 * currentInterval) * 1000);

      log.debug('State = ' + state + ' Another roundtrip, time: ' +
        currentEvent.format() + ' interval : ' + currentInterval +
        'ms factor : ' + intervalFactor + ' rate is: ' + currentRate +
        ' current usage:' + currentWatt);

      var eventData = {
        sensordata: {
          id: sensorId,
          time: currentEvent.valueOf(),
          rate: currentRate
        }
      };

      log.debug('Posting: ' + JSON.stringify(eventData));

    } else if (firstEvent === true) {
      firstEvent = false;
      log.debug('Skipping first event to avoid getting noise in the results');
    } else {
      log.debug('End of the black stripe, we can drop this event: ' +
        currentInterval + 'ms');
    }

    previousEvent = currentEvent;
        previousInterval = currentInterval;
  } else {

    log.debug('Singal bounce ignored, interval: ' + currentInterval +
      'ms');
  }
}
```
